I do wanna say that I apologize that I did
not learn the I before E except after C
thing.
So if you saw the word experience
spelt wrong, I just can't spell, so
sorry about that.
But I did get a few people
[LAUGH] messaging me about that.
So one other thing, I went ahead and
made the presentation repo public.
So if you guys do wanna actually get
access to the presentation, at least now,
start going through any of the previous
slides and stuff like that, feel free to.
>> Is logging part of DevOps
compared to developers?
>> Yeah, logging is a really,
really touchy subject, [LAUGH] honestly.
You want to make it so
that your devs can find the logs, right?
What you don't want is developers
coming into your chat and being like,
it's broken, but I don't know how, right?
If that happens,
then that's something where you fail to
being sure that they can access logs or
stuff like that.
Yeah, oftentimes, again, going back
to the whole, no, I pushed something,
something's broken,
I don't know what's going on.
Do you know what the first
question I ask is?
>> What error messages are you getting?
>> Yeah, have you checked the logs?
[LAUGH] If you don't check the logs,
I can check them for you,
but somebody's got to.
And so
I think that's the important part of it,
is just making sure that
you have that there.
And that you have a good practice
in place to where people,
people shouldn't expect you to do that.
Anyone can look up [LAUGH] a log.
So empowering them, yeah,
the infrastructure under it,
yes, but anything above it, no, yeah.
Yeah, go ahead.
>> Same logic, I guess,
should be applied to metrics, traces,
if you have all of the observability,
I guess, or implemented for them?
>> Yeah, I mean, so metrics and
tracing are also not, honestly,
a lot of them aren't really used,
like APMs and stuff like that.
If you do get access to an APM, the best
thing I can say with that is really try
and only have the metrics you care about
in there because it can become ridiculous.
[LAUGH] And so have a real
purpose to using it.
And then also, yeah, isolate it so that
metrics aren't just in one huge dashboard.
Cuz I think that's something
that'll happen a lot, too,
is people implement JetMetrics.
But then they don't think about like,
okay, now we need metrics per service and
its own UI that I can send
a developer to test and stuff.
Grafana, good example of that,
nobody likes using Grafana,
although it's fantastic,
[LAUGH] you know what I mean?
No devs wanna use Grafana.
And I'll be honest,
we have a Grafana in every environment.
Do you know how many times I get
questions about Grafana daily?
It's just nobody uses it, so
experience is important, yeah.
>> So to summarize,
logging is more observability.
You can facilitate observability
through DevOps principles, but
to say that it's DevOps' responsibility,
it's kind of not.
>> 100%, yeah, your job is just to
give them the tools to be successful,
yeah, not to make them successful,
[LAUGH] yeah.
>> I guess cuz there's application
logging at one level, and that's
definitely a developer own, cuz that's
what they're writing and building in.
But then when you have those meta services
that are consuming all those different
application logs, I'm hearing you say
it's kind of a hybrid responsibility.
>> Okay, so now what you're actually
walking into is not really exactly
what I do, but it is something that
DevOps is kinda becoming more,
which is Platform Ops.
It's the concept of what you just said.
Well, we have services that
are owned by developers,
who owns the gateways and
everything in the middle.
Who owns the libraries that everyone uses,
right, stuff like that.
That's really where Platform Ops comes in,
platform is really just what it's called.
But the idea behind it is that
they focus on more of the logical
parts of the infrastructure, right?
I'm just building bricks, so
to speak, I'm not sitting down and
actually working in JavaScript,
Go, right, other languages and
trying to solve problems like that.
And so platform can help with that,
because platform can then
take on that responsibility.
It takes that responsibility
off the DevOps team, and
it still lets the DevOps team focus
on what they're trying to focus on.
If you blur that line, then DevOps
becomes more involved in other things.
It's really important to
keep that separation,
because the reality of it is,
DevOps is just a really limited resource.
You are a limited resource that's
being shared across the whole company.
So that's probably the best
way to look at it, yeah.
Okay, so there's one other
thing that happens quite a bit,
which is if I'm in DevOps,
do I need to know everything?
No, you don't, you do not, no.
I will be honest with you, I don't even
fully know all of our features [LAUGH] in
our company that I work at.
I don't, I don't have to, though.
So no, it's not, but what I focus on is
very much the only thing I focus on, yeah.